## Types of Client
  - The user interface runs on the client. The client can be a mobile app, a desktop or a tablet like an iPad. It can also be a web-based console, running commands to interact with the backend server.
  - Thin Client : Thin Client is the client which holds just the user interface of the application. It has no business logic of any sort. Just like in **a three-tier** application.
  - Thick Client (sometimes also called the Fat client): On the contrary, the thick client holds all or some part of the business logic. These are the **two-tier** applications.


## Server
  - Application server: The primary task of a web server is to receive the requests from the client & provide the response after executing the business logic based on the request parameters received from the client.
  - Proxy server
  - Mail server
  - File server
  - Virtual server
  - server-side rendering
   
## HTTP Protocol working example
  - [reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Overview)
  
## REST API & API Endpoints
  - REST: REST stands for Representational State Transfer. **It is a kind of design architecture of API.** It acts as an interface. The communication between the client & the server happens over HTTP. 
  - Example:
    - 看Url就知道要什么
    - 看http method就知道干什么
    - 看http status code就知道结果如何
    
  - What is URI, URL, URN? [reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/zh-CN/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/Identifying_resources_on_the_Web)
    - URI（Uniform Resource Identifier): find something
      - URL(Uniform Resource Locator): find resource by using location method
      - URN（Uniform Resource Name): find resource by using name method
  
## HTTP Pull and Push
  - Pull:
    - **Polling**:
       - AJAX(Asynchronous JavaScript & XML): It is a dynamic technique of requesting information from the server after regular intervals.   Example: news, sports websites
    - Time To Live (TTL):  The client doesn’t receive a response from the server within the TTL, the browser kills the connection. It could be 30 secs - 60 sesc.
    - Persistent Connection: It remains open for further requests & the responses, as opposed to being closed after a single communication.
      - Heartbeat Interceptors(push): These are just blank request responses between the client and the server to prevent the browser from killing the connection.
        - Consume a lot of resources    Example: browser-based multiplayer game
  - Push:
    - Callback: First time request, then to push if have update resource. Example: user notifications
    
  - **Push-Based Technologies:**
    - [Web Sockets:](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebSockets_API)we can keep the client-server connection open as long as we want.  **Works on TCP** Example: chat applications, real-time social streams. 
    - **AJAX – Long Polling**: server holds the response until it finds an update to be sent to the client.
    - [HTML5 Event Source API & Server Sent Events](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Server-sent_events): the server automatically pushes the data to the client whenever the updates are available. The data flow is in one direction only.
    - [Streaming Over HTTP:](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Streams_API/Concepts)Streaming over HTTP facilitates streaming of large objects like multi-media files.

## Server-Side Rendering VS Client_side Rendering
  - **Server-side rendering** approach is perfect for **delivering static content**, such as **WordPress blogs**. It’s also good for **SEO** as the **crawlers** can easily read the generated content.
    - Downsides:
    - This process consumes unnecessary bandwidth & also fails to provide a smooth user experience.
    - A big downside to this is once the number of concurrent users on the website rises, it puts an unnecessary load on the server.
  - **Client-side rendering** works best for modern dynamic Ajax-based websites.
  - **Hybrid approach:** server-side rendering for the home page and other static content; client-side rendering for the dynamic pages.
