# What is it?
  - Scalability means the ability of the application to handle & withstand increased workload without sacrificing the latency.
  - What is latency?
    - Latency is the amount of time a system takes to respond to a user request. Let’s say you send a request to an app to fetch an image & the system takes 2 seconds to respond to your request. The latency of the system is 2 seconds.
      - Network Latency
      - Application Latency
      
# How to scale?
  - Vertical Scaling (scaling up)
    - Vertical scaling means adding more power to your **server**.
  - Horizontal Scaling (scaling out)
    - Adding more hardware to the existing hardware **resource pool**.
    - **Code needs to be stateless**
  - Cloud Elasticity
    - Scale up & down dynamically.
  - Pros & Cons of Vertical & Horizontal Scaling
    - Vertical
      - Pros: we do not have to touch the code or make any complex distributed system configurations.
      - Cons: availability risk.
    - Horizontal
      - Pros: highly available
      - Cons: It takes much administrative, monitoring, management efforts.

# Primary Bottlenecks that Hurt the Scalability Of Application
  - Database: database needs to be scaled
  - Application Architecture: not using asynchronous processes & modules
  - Caching: Not using caching in the application wisely 
  - Inefficient Configuration & Setup of Load Balancers
  - Adding Business Logic to the Database
  - Not Picking the Right Database
  - At the Code Level: Big-O complexity
  
# How to improve?
  - Run application profiler, code profiler. See which processes are taking too long, eating up too much resources. Find out the bottlenecks.
  - Cache wisely: Try to serve all the read requests from the cache. Use a write-through cache.
  - CDN(Content Delivery Network): Using a CDN further reduces the latency of the application due to the proximity of the data from the requesting user.
  - Data Compression: As compressed data consumes less bandwidth, consequently, the download speed of the data on the client will be faster.
  - Avoid Unnecessary Client Server Requests: Try to club multiple requests into one.
  
# [Testing the Scalability](https://engineering.fb.com/production-engineering/how-production-engineers-support-global-events-on-facebook/)
  - There is no definite formula for that. Testing can be performed at both the hardware and the software level. 
  - During the scalability testing, different system parameters are taken into account such as the CPU usage, network bandwidth consumption, throughput, the number of requests processed within a stipulated time, latency, memory usage of the program, end-user experience when the system is under heavy load etc.
