# What?
  - High availability also known as HA is the ability of the system to stay online despite having failures at the infrastructural level in real-time.
    
# Why need ? Reason for System Failures
  - Software Crashes
  - Hardware Failures
  - Human Errors
  - Planned Downtiem
 
# How to overcome those problems?
  - Fault-tolerance
    - Fault tolerance is the ability of the system to stay up despite taking hits.
    - micro-services
      - upside:
        - Easier management
        - Easier development
        - Ease of adding new features
        - Ease of maintenance
        - High availability
        
  - Redundancy (Active-Passive HA Mode)
    - Redundancy is **duplicating** the components or instances & keeping them on **standby** to take over in case the active instances go down. It’s the fail-safe, backup mechanism 
    - Monitoring & Automation
   
  - Replication – Active-Active HA Mode
    - Replication means having a number of similar nodes **running the workload together**. There are**no standby or passive instances**. When a single or a few nodes go down, the remaining nodes bear the load of the service. Think of this as load balancing.
   
# High Availability Clustering
  - known as the Fail-Over cluster contains a set of nodes running in conjunction with each other that ensures high availability of the service.
  - A single state across all the nodes in a cluster is achieved with the help of a shared distributed memory & a distributed co-ordination service like the Zookeeper.
  
  
